[THEME MUSIC]
>> If you're watching
this episode,
I'm assuming that you have
seen at least some of "Missing
Links."
And one of the things that
probably became very clear
in those episodes
is that we live
in a world that's changing.
And it's changing in ways,
that we've never seen before.
We're in uncharted
territory in many respects.
We don't have a good
guidebook to tell us
how to navigate through
the waters of change
that we find ourselves in today.
So the program itself
laid out the science,
and some of the
applications in terms
of what that science
means in our lives.
But what I want to talk
to you about right now
is the specific
examples of lifestyle,
and how we can change
and adapt our lifestyle
to this time of extremes.
And I want to be very
clear about the purpose.
Some people were talking about
how do we survive the changes.
I don't know about
you, but for me I
want to do more than
survive, I want to thrive.
And that's precisely
what these changes do.
They allow us to thrive in an
environment that's shifting,
because we've embraced the fact
of that shifting environment.
The topics some people
talk about diet,
I prefer to think of
it more as nutrition.
Diet brings to mind
some kind of a regimen
that we do for a period
of time to achieve a goal.
And when that goal is achieved,
maybe we stay with it,
maybe we don't.
It works for some
people, but for me I
prefer to think of it
as a way of living,
and the nutrition that
I give my body everyday.
So, I want to talk to you
about nutrition, exercise,
supplements, and about
the heart-brain connection
that we've talked about
in "Missing Links."
When it comes to nutrition,
what the scientists are now
telling us, and they
think is new information,
parallels very
closely the wisdom
of our most ancient and
cherished spiritual traditions.
And that is simply
this, the closer
that we can gather our
nutrition from living foods,
plant-based diet, specifically
the more nutrition,
and the better
quality of nutrition
it creates for our bodies.
Now, for a lot of
doctors I know,
they're saying it's
like it's something new.
But I want to share
something with you.
I mentioned in previous episodes
that the Nag Hammadi library,
for example, the Gnostic Texts.
That library was edited
in the fourth century
by the Catholic Church, and
there were at least 43 books
we know that were either
removed altogether, or condensed
and replaced.
Among those books,
the Gospel of Thomas.
Thomas being the
scribe that recorded
the words of the
master teacher, Jesus,
as he spoke to his community.
So, this isn't about
a religious man,
this is about a master
teacher answering
for his community many of
the same questions you're
asking me.
They were saying,
Master, what is it
that we should eat
to bring strength
and health to our bodies?
How do we bring healing
to our own bodies?
What he said to his
community was this.
He said, the things that
give life to your food
will give life to
your body, also.
And the things that destroy your
food will destroy your body.
I don't know about you, that
cannot be any clearer to me.
In the eloquent masterful words
spoken over 2,000 years ago,
he's telling us what the
best science of our time
has found for today.
That when we overcook our
foods, when we hydrogenate them
with oils, when
they're processed
through artificial ways
of creating substances
that really aren't food.
If the food that
we're eating doesn't
come from a garden in the earth
where you can identify it,
it's probably not food.
And I think this is so true.
So, the closer we
can get our food
to its natural source, the
better quality of nutrition
that we're going to find.
Almost universally, scientists
have agreed that a plant-based
diet is optimum--
doesn't mean that we
shouldn't eat meat.
If you're going to
eat meat, it has
to be really cleanly grown,
fed, with the kinds of nutrients
we all know the
terms free-range,
grass-fed all those
kinds of things.
But here's the thing, and
I know this for myself.
When I travel, it's hard to
eat well every single day.
And I know people that beat
themselves up when they
can't honor that commitment.
So, I'm going to share
with you the promise I
made to myself a long time ago.
I'm living in the real world.
I'm walking in this
world, doing the best
I can to be the best person
I can to share with you what
I know to be true.
And the promise
I made to my body
is every meal that I
ingest in that moment,
I will give my body the
absolute best that's
available in that moment.
And if it's not what I
typically eat, that's OK.
Because that's the best
I have in that moment.
The next moment,
the next opportunity
I have for a meal,
if I'm given a choice
between a beautiful
meal of something
that I would typically
choose and some tasty snack
that the airplane
is offering me,
this is where the workshop
of my life begins.
Because the promise
I made to my body
was to choose the best that's
available in that moment.
And I'm going to do
that every single time.
So, this is the promise
I made to myself.
I don't typically
eat a lot of pasta,
for example, when I'm home.
On the road, it's
possible you can
be a non-carnivore
and starve in some
of the most beautiful
hotels in the world that
have beautiful
food, but it's not
the kind of food that is
grown in our father's garden,
for example.
So, I'm going to invite you just
to think about those things.
If you can give yourself the
highest quality of nutrition
at every meal, that's
key number one.
Number two, movement.
Our bodies are designed to move.
We typically think of
exercise in the way
that we do, as a diet, that it's
something you do in a moment,
and then you're done with it.
If you can think
of exercise more
as a way of being
throughout the day.
And every opportunity that you
have, move parts of your body
if you were living in the
jungle 10,000 years ago,
parts of your body that you
would need to move and to use.
So, it can be simple things.
When you're walking
through an airport,
you have a choice between
taking a moving stairway
and moving under your own
volition, take the walk.
You've been on a plane or
you've been in the car,
it's good for you to do that.
But the whole definition
of exercise is changing.
Exercise physiologists
now are telling us
that what we used to think of
as exercise 15 and 20 years ago,
high intensity aerobics,
distance running, and things
like that here's the key.
They can be good
for us, however,
what they mean to our
bodies changes as we age.
So, at different points of
our life, different ages
of our life, our body
interprets different kinds
of exercise in different ways.
For example, high
intensity aerobics,
distance running for man or
a woman under 40 years old.
These, are examples of
where we can optimize,
the way our bodies
are functioning.
After 40, as the
hormones begin to change,
our bodies interpret
that kind of exercise
completely differently.
So, what does that mean?
It means after
40, we are looking
for the kind of exercise that is
high intensity, short duration
intervals.
So, maybe 30 seconds of a
very high intensity cycling,
running, push ups, anything.
30 seconds all out,
as hard as you can.
Resting for 15 seconds, and
then going into another interval
of another kind of movement.
And what the studies
are showing is
if we can use multiple large
muscle groups simultaneously,
that's where we have the
greatest benefit to balance
the hormones for both
men and women over 40,
as our hormones begin to change.
We're both talking
about estrogen,
we're both talking
about testosterone,
progesterone, DHEA
levels-- the precursor
to every one of the
hormones in our bodies.
We need to optimize these.
And our bodies will interpret
exercise differently
after the age, right around 40,
it's different for everyone,
but generally, right
around 40 years of age.
So, that's why people I
know, 50's and 60's, are
on the treadmill,
they're doing the cycles.
They say, man, I
do this every day,
and I seem to be gaining weight.
And I seem to be out of shape.
My muscle tone is
gone, it's flab.
Our bodies, after the age of 40,
interpret that kind of exercise
as the need to pack on
the weight to prepare.
Because the body
says, I don't know
how long I'm going to need to
do this or when I need to rest.
So, it's a completely
different signal to the body.
I'm inviting you now to check
this stuff out for yourself.
Do your due diligence
on what works for you,
but the idea of
exercise is changing.
That's number two.
Number three, supplements.
A lot of controversy
about supplements.
In an ideal world,
10,000 years ago,
the food that we
get from the garden
that we grow in our backyard may
have had all of the nutrients
that we need to
sustain our bodies.
And the very sad
truth is right now,
even the best
homegrown gardens where
we cultivate our own
mixture of soil, the tests
are showing that the
food that comes from that
does not have the
density of nutrients
that our bodies were accustomed
to over 10,000 years ago.
That means it's a good
idea to supplement.
There is no one
size that fits all,
everyone needs
different supplements.
And this is where
where medical science
can help us pinpoint this.
You can't beat medical
science for diagnostics.
So when you do your
blood test, you
can find out the annual physical
what is it that's optimized?
What are you low in?
And you can
supplement accordingly
with high quality
therapeutic dosages
of standardized supplements.
And you can do an
internet search.
There are really, really good
supplements that we can buy.
Not necessarily stuff off
the shelf at the neighborhood
grocery store, because
the quality of what
we find the tests
have shown it varies,
it's not always
what's on the label.
So, you have to be really
aware of these things.
But a couple of key ones--
CoQ10 is an enzyme.
Every every cell in our body
is using CoQ10, and especially
our hearts.
And our hearts are
undergoing a lot
of stress emotional stress,
because of the uncertainty
in the world right now.
Physical stress for many of us.
Emotional stress translates
into physical stress.
CoQ10 is an absolute every day.
The vitamin C, for example.
What studies are now showing
is that our bodies actually
need much higher doses of C than
what we've been led to believe.
The FDA, you know, recommends at
least 1,000 to 2,000 milligrams
a day.
Here's the key, vitamin
C in the past has meant
rose hips, which are
not tolerated well
by the human body.
They upset the
stomach, digestion,
your body doesn't know
what to do with those.
There's another form
of vitamin C that's
called ascorbic-based vitamin C.
What that means is it is giving
your body everything your body
needs to create its own C.
And this opens the door
to a really interesting
conversation.
Humans are one of the
few mammals that do not
create their own vitamin
C. Most mammals create
their own vitamin C. If you've
ever been a pregnant woman,
your body kicked in the enzymes
it needed to create vitamin C.
And you actually
created your own vitamin
C while you were pregnant.
At the end of your pregnancy
when you gave birth,
that system begins
to shut down again.
And what it tells us is
that we have the capability.
That there are genetic
programs within us now
that seem to to not be
activated in the way
that they may have
been in the past.
That's why it's important
to supplement with C.
A good B complex.
Vitamin K is one that
is often left out
in the multi supplements.
And vitamin K, people
think that's all
about blood clotting.
Well, there are different kinds
of K there's K1, there's K2.
Here's the thing vitamin K
is necessary in our bodies
to transport the magnesium
and calcium into our bones
that people take as supplements.
Women, especially
after menopause,
begin taking a lot of
magnesium and calcium,
thinking they are
strengthening their bones.
If the vitamin K is not
present, it will never
find it into the bones.
It builds up as plaque
in the arteries.
People that are taking these
tremendous amounts of calcium,
magnesium, and they're finding
hardening in the arteries
and high instance of stroke.
And they just attribute
it to old age.
It's not old age, it's because
they're taking supplements
that can't be utilized.
So, they're building
up as plaque.
Another one, vitamin C. If
your body is low on vitamin C,
your body will adjust to
that by creating cholesterol
to strengthen the
inside of the arteries,
in response to the
lack of vitamin C.
So, the flip side of that
is an increase in vitamin C
creates lower
cholesterol and actually
is healthier for the arteries.
These are connections
that aren't often
made in our society today.
The fourth aspect,
heart-brain coherence.
I've talked about this in
depth in one of the episodes
in "Missing Links."
The ability to harmonize our
heart and our brain, two organs
into a single, potent
neural network.
In addition to the spiritual
implications of intuition,
deep intuition on demand, direct
access to the subconscious,
super learning like
Jason Bourne, where
you have total
recall of everything,
because we're in
the gamma state.
Those all come from harmonizing
the heart and the brain.
But in addition to all
of that, if you're not
into any of those things,
harmonizing the heart
and the brain is good for us.
What it does is it
kicks into high gear
our immune system, our
anti-aging hormones.
And it kicks into high
gear our body's ability
to create the DHEA
that's the precursor
for every other hormone.
And what the laboratory
studies have shown
is that three minutes of
heart-brain coherence,
where we optimize
this conversation
between the heart and the
brain, increases our DHEA levels
over 100%.
100%, and these
are the precursors
for all the other
hormones that we need.
And that increase will
last up to six hours
without doing anything
else special, simply
from allowing this heart-brain
coherence to come into place.
So at a very high level,
these are four categories
of conscious lifestyle,
conscious change that I
have found personally, that
I've shared with friends when
they ask in their audiences.
What do we do to
fortify ourselves
in a time of extremes?
In the presence of
the greatest change
of 5,000 years of recorded human
history technological change,
social change, economic change--
all coming down in
a single generation.
How do we strengthen ourselves
to embrace and thrive
in that kind of change?
The four things
I've shared with you
are very high level categories
that give us insights
into precisely things
that allow us to thrive
in our time of extremes.
There is a medical model
that has been in place.
It's a story that's part of
the scientific story that
is in place.
It was built, late
1800s, early 1900s.
And even though the
new research has
shown that part of
that model is obsolete,
there is a fight to hang
on to an obsolete story.
And sadly and honestly,
a big part of that
is the economic incentive to
hang on to an obsolete story.
If we continue to live according
to some of these old beliefs,
it assures a constant
market, and the need
for new medications,
new drugs to offset
the side effects of unhealthy
choices in lifestyle.
And these are all
lifestyle choices.
This is the beauty of
what we're talking about.
Everything that
I've just shared,
all comes under the heading
of choice lifestyle choice.
And more often than
not, now, new studies
I've seen a number
of studies were
published in the journal of
American American Medical
Association and some of
the scientific journals
are saying the diseases that
are taking the most lives are
lifestyle-based diseases.
And I have personally
been in cultures
in South America in
the Andes, in Asia,
where the incidences of cancer--
breast cancer, prostate
cancer, uterine cancer
Alzheimer's and dementia--
they simply do not exist
in these people's lives,
even though they are
living advanced ages.
So, to call these diseases
a product of aging,
makes no sense at all.
It's not about the
aging, it's about how
we live as we attain
those advanced ages.
And the fact that there are
societies and cultures that
don't reflect any of
those kinds of diseases
tells us it's about the way
we've been conditioned to think
and live our lives today.
A perfect example of this,
I spend a tremendous amount
of time in the high
Andes of southern Peru,
and I have since the 1980's.
The capital is Cusco.
And Cusco is over
400-year-old community,
surrounded by native villages.
Recently, fast food chains
have come into Cusco,
giving burgers, french
fries, and chicken.
Making it available
in large batches,
hydrogenated oils, fried foods.
And now, for the
first time ever,
the young people, the
incidences of diabetes,
are on the increase
with children,
because they have made
this a constant diet.
We've seen this within
a span of only 20 years.
You can see the change,
and their ancestors never
had these kinds of--
they ate meat, but
they ate clean meat
that came from the
environment-- guinea pigs,
mostly, that come
from the environment.
So it's all about lifestyle,
the choices that we're making.
And I think we owe
it to ourselves
to embrace these deep truths.
But it all comes down
to the first thing
we said in this episode.
And that is simply the things
that give life to our food,
give life to our bodies.
And that is so eloquent,
so simple, so powerful.
And I think about
it every single day,
every time I create a meal.
Is this the best I have
to offer in this moment?
So in the "Missing
Links" series,
there were a couple
of places where
I talked a little bit about the
discovery of telomeres-- number
one, the very
special pieces of DNA
at the end of each chromosome
that determine, in large part,
how long the chromosome lives.
And subsequently, how many
times that cell can divide.
So, I talked about
that a little bit.
Um, I want to tie that
in to this conversation
that we're having about
diet and exercise.
Because everything I just shared
with you, plant-based diet,
foods that come from
the earth, rather than
come from a machine
that's produced them,
then there's
supplements that we need
in in very specific
proportions or ratios
the exercise in our lives that
mimics the movements we would
go through if we were living,
in a little closer to the earth,
if we were living, more
active environments
outdoors, heart-brain coherence.
Every one of these things
that I've mentioned
is now being shown to have
a direct effect on our DNA,
in general.
And specifically,
on the telomeres
at the end of the chromosomes.
So, let me talk to
you just a little bit
about what that effect is.
The purpose of the
telomeres is very similar--
if we think of shoelaces.
I'm wearing boots
now, so I don't
have the shoelaces to show you.
But if you can imagine
at the end of shoelaces,
typically, there's a
little plastic cap that
keeps the ends from fraying.
As long as that cap
is there, those laces
are easy to lace
up on our shoes.
Telomeres serve a very similar
function on the end of the DNA.
Every time the cell divides,
the chromosomes divide.
And the way the division,
without getting really
technical, the way
the division happens,
the ends of the chromosomes will
become brittle and break off,
and will not go through the
complete division intact
and that's OK.
Nature has accounted for that
by putting the chromosome,
or, the telomeres, on the end.
So when the incomplete
breakage happens,
it doesn't happen
in the juicy stuff
where all the information
is, it happens
in the telomeres that
are designed to be broken
and shredded.
So, that's the good news.
The flip side of the good news
is every time the cell divides,
the telomere loses, a
little bit of its length.
That's OK, because
it divides again,
it loses a little bit more.
But that's OK, there's
still some there.
Divides a little
bit more, but you
can see where this is going.
Over time, it will lose so much.
The telomere will become
so short at the end
of the chromosome that it
cannot protect that division.
And when happens,
we call it old age,
we call it senescence,
we call it death.
So, this is the determining
factor for how many times
a cell can divide is how
long those telomeres are.
In 2009, Carol Greider
and Elizabeth Blackburn,
two Nobel Prize
winning scientists,
received the Nobel Prize
in physiology and medicine
for the discovery of an enzyme.
And if you haven't seen the
episode that talks about this,
you're going to love
the name of the enzyme.
OK, so telomeres are what
give the cells the longevity.
The name of the enzyme
is called telomerase,
and that tells the whole story.
The sole purpose of
the enzyme telomerase
is to heal, rejuvenate,
and lengthen the telomeres.
The catch is something has
to activate the telomerase.
The reason I'm
saying this now is
because everything I said at
the beginning of this episode
activates the telomerase--
nutrition, exercise,
supplements, and specifically,
heart-brain harmony.
It's called
heart-brain coherence
when we tune our
heart and our brain
so that the signal moving
up through the vagus nerve,
and down through
the spinal cord.
So, that signal is optimized at
.1 Hertz, a very low frequency.
When we can tune our heart
and brain to .1 Hertz,
that is an optimum conversation.
And one of the effects is
it triggers the telomerase
in our bodies that
activates that telomerase
and can actually stop
the aging process,
reverse the aging process, and
make those telomeres longer,
no matter how old we are.
So, this is the beauty of how
the science is tying everything
together.
And it helps us to
understand, some
of the traditions
that I've studied
were where monks
and nuns have lived,
exceedingly long lives
120 years and more.
But they don't look like they've
lived a 120 this is the key.
There's one way of thinking that
says we come into this world
as a vessel, for example,
a vessel of life.
And we have X amount of
life that we begin to use up
from the moment we're born.
And you've probably
heard this term
that we begin to die
the moment we're born.
That's a way of
thinking, and it's
embraced by a lot of people.
But the science is showing
something very different.
It's more accurate
to say that we begin
to heal the moment we're born.
That the vessel of life,
it's not a finite vessel
that we begin to
use up over time.
It is a vessel that's being
constantly replenished.
And we replenish it
through the choices
of lifestyle we make every day--
nutrition, movement,
supplements,
heart-brain connection what we
call our spiritual practices
all contribute to
filling this vessel.
So, here's why I'm saying this.
When I am with an
indigenous person,
and I talk about these in some
of the books in the exercises
I was with a Tibetan
nun, for example.
I had the entire
conversation with her
as we hiked up the side of
a mountain to a monastery.
And it was only after
she went indoors
that my Tibetan guide
asked me the question.
He said, Did you enjoy your
conversation with the gaeshi?
He said, How old do
you think she is?
I said, I would guess she's
probably in her early, maybe,
mid 80's.
He said, the woman you just
talked to is 120 years old.
The key is our thinking when
someone is 120 years old,
we think about "Raiders of
the Lost Ark" or the chalice
where you find a knight hovering
over an ancient secret that
looks like he's
frail and fragile.
But if an individual has learned
to embrace these principles,
then the body keeps
replenishing itself.
You don't look like you're using
up that last droplet of life
from a finite vessel, you
look like you're constantly
replenishing.
And the nun did.
Her skin color was good,
her eyes were good,
her walk was great.
I mean, she was
walking ahead of me
up the side of a
16,000 foot cliff.
And I asked her a question.
I said, what do you
attribute your longevity to?
And she pointed
like this to the--
she goes to the monastery.
She says, what do
you think we do here?
She says, I live
what's in these texts.
I live what's in
these practices.
The practices are compassion.
Compassion is a factor
of heart-brain coherence.
It is the end product.
First, we have the experience
of sympathy for others
and other forms of life.
And from the sympathy
we develop empathy
for others and
other forms of life.
Sympathy, we can
recognize the suffering.
Empathy, we can identify
with the suffering.
Compassion is the ability
to witness the suffering
without getting
lost in the hurt.
And that experience
is directly linked
to the heart-brain connection
that triggers longevity
in the cells, that
releases the telomerase.
So, why do we see so many
people of advanced age
in these monasteries
and nunneries?
Because they are
living in their lives
the principles that
science is now developing.
And in all fairness,
they don't have
to deal with the
challenges of life
because they are
protected, buffered
in the bubble of that monastery.
You and I live in
the real world.
The monastery, for us,
is the world around us.
And we have to find
the way to live
our truth in a world
that's constantly changing
and challenging our truth.
And one of the ways
that I found to do that
is by embodying every
one of those principles
that I've shared to
anchor the deepest
truth of who I am in the world.
So when I walk into the
world and I'm challenged,
that's my rock.
I call it my rock.
And as long as I
know what my rock is,
that's what I know absolutely
to be true in my life.
As long as I can hang
my emotional body
and my physicality
on the rock of what
I know to be true in my
life, I find the strength
to move into any unknown
situation, any changing world,
any audience, any challenge.
And I know I'm going to be
OK, because I know who I am.
And I'm learning more about
who I am by sharing this
and by exploring these episodes.
When it comes to the
accouterments of spirituality,
everyone learns differently.
And that's why it's
good that there
are so many different
tools to help people learn.
If a crystal, placed on a
third eye or worn around the,
throat chakra-- tourmaline
around the throat chakra.
Or, an elixir coming from
a mushroom fermenting
in the back of the refrigerator
first thing in the morning.
If that is useful to you
and your spiritual path,
then I think it's good
for you to follow that,
as long as it's useful.
Here's my caveat,
these are tools
that can help us achieve
a state of awareness
and a way of being.
The ultimate goal is for
us to become those things
without the tools.
So if the tools help us
to reach a state of being,
and then we can let the
tool go, it has served us.
If the tool is something that we
feel we have to have every day,
and the moment we feel
stressed, when we say, Oh God,
where's my crystal?
Oh God, where's my you
know, people hooked up
to the computer for
biofeedback-- oh God,
I've got to have my biofeedback.
If we get to that point, then
the tool has become a crutch.
And only you know when your
tool crosses that line.
Is it still a tool
for you that helps
you to become the most empowered
being that you can possibly
become?
Or, have you given your
power away to your tool
and allowed it to become
a crutch in your life?
If you don't know
the answer to that,
ask yourself, if I'm
out in the world,
if I'm walking down the street
and something crosses my path,
and that throws me into
an emotional chaos,
can I deal with it
without having my gadget?
And if the answer
is yes, then it
tells you that your
tools have served you.
And if the answer is no, that
tells you, in that moment,
that your tool is a crutch not
right, wrong, good, or bad,
you're just being honest--
it's a crutch for me right now.
How can I move from
this place of a crutch
to an empowered state
where it's nice to have?
And if I don't have
it, I'm OK without it?
And this is the way I feel
about everything, in our world,
including medicine.
I think medicine
is an amazing tool
to help us restore a health
and the feeling to our body.
And once we know what it
feels like to be healthy,
once we know what it feels like
to be well, when we can claim
that feeling in
our bodies, there
is a facet that I didn't get
to talk about of our existence.
I didn't get to talk about
in the "Missing Link"
series mirror
neurons in our brain.
Mirror neurons are a
special kind of neuron.
When they witness
something happening,
our brain can't
tell whether or not
we're seeing it in someone
else or experiencing it
within ourselves.
So when we listen to music
that we like, for example,
it will light up very
specific places in our brain.
The studies show that when
someone is playing the music,
the same places light
up in their brain
light up in our brain,
even though we're not
playing the instrument.
So, simply by having
the experience,
our same places in
the brain light up,
whether we're witnessing
or whether we're
having experience.
This is important when
it comes to healing.
If we can claim the
feeling of healing,
or if we can witness
that healing in others,
if we can appreciate what the
whole, complete, fully enabled,
fully capacitated human
looks like and behaves
like and claim
that for ourselves,
our brain will begin to release
the chemistry in our body
that matches that.
Because our brain
doesn't know that
we're witnessing
it in someone else.
So, all of this is my
way of saying to you,
whatever you do in your life to
move you along in your growth
and in your spiritual
progression,
I think it's a
good thing to do--
be conscious and aware.
Ask yourself, is this my
tool, or is it my crutch?
And your answer will tell
you what your next step is.
So, we've covered a lot
of ground in this episode.
And we began talking
about factors of lifestyle
to empower us, to help us to
thrive in the changing world.
If I had to mention a single
word that encapsulates
everything that we
have done today,
for me, that word
would be choice.
Because it is all about choice.
There are people in the world
and in our families around us
that will never make that choice
that you and I are talking
about making, and that's
a choice for them.
And I want to be
very clear, it's
not right, wrong, good, or bad.
It is about what
makes our hearts sing,
where we find our
greatest joy in life.
So, I'm inviting you to honor
the choices that you make
for yourself, and to
be conscious and aware
that every moment of every
day, you are making the choice.
[THEME MUSIC]